open-cluster-management/backlog#11989 depl sub (#2140)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: services/deploy_submariner_api.adoc

[#deploying-submariner-apis]
= Deploying Submariner with APIs

> Before you deploy Submariner with {product-title}, you must prepare the clusters on the hosting environment for the connection. Currently you can use the `SubmarinerConfig` API to automatically prepare the clusters on Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud Platform and VMware vSphere. For other platforms, you need to prepare them manually, see xref:../services/deploy_submariner_api.adoc#preparing-the-hosts-to-deploy-submariner[Preparing the hosts to deploy Submariner] for the steps.

Reviewer: I would add a comma after Currently

Author: Agreed. Good catch.

+
Replace `managed-cluster-namespace` with the namespace of your managed cluster.
+
Replace `gcp-os-service-account-json-file-content` with the contents of your Google Cloud Platform `osServiceAccount.json` file.

. If you created the managed cluster with {product-title-short}, or you have already created the secret in the previous step, prepare the cluster by entering a command that is similar to the following example:
+
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: submarineraddon.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: SubmarinerConfig
metadata:
    name: submariner
    namespace: <managed-cluster-namespace>
spec:
    credentialsSecret:
      name: <managed-cluster-name>-gcp-creds
EOF
----
+
Replace `managed-cluster-namespace` with the namespace of your managed cluster.
+
Replace `managed-cluster-name` with the name of your managed cluster. The value of `managed-cluster-name-gcp-creds` is your Google Cloud Platform credential secret name, which you can find in the cluster namespace of your hub cluster. 
+
*Note:* The name of the `SubmarinerConfig` must be `submariner`, as shown in the example.
+

> This configuration automatically opens the Submariner required ports: network address translation - traversal (NATT) port (4500/UDP), virtual extensible LAN (VXLAN) port (4800/UCP), and Submariner metrics port (8080/TCP) on your Google Cloud Platform instance. It also labels one worker node as the Submariner gateway in your Google Cloud Platform cluster.

Reviewer 2: @cadawson we need a small update here

> It also labels one worker node as the Submariner gateway in your Google Cloud Platform cluster.

to

> It also labels one worker node as the Submariner gateway and enables the public IP of this node in your Google Cloud Platform cluster.

+
Replace `<managed-cluster-set-name>` with the name of the `ManagedClusterSet` to which you want to add the managed cluster. 

.  Deploy Submariner on the managed cluster by entering the following command:
+
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: addon.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: ManagedClusterAddOn
metadata:
     name: submariner
     namespace: <managed-cluster-name>
spec:
     installNamespace: submariner-operator
----
+
Replace `managed-cluster-name` with the name of the managed cluster that you want to use with Submariner. 
+
The `installNamespace` field in the spec of the `ManagedClusterAddOn` is the namespace on the managed cluster where it installs Submariner. Currently, Submariner must be installed in the `submariner-operator` namespace.
+
After the `ManagedClusterAddOn` is created, the `submariner-addon` deploys Submariner to the `submariner-operator` namespace on the managed cluster. You can view the deployment status of Submariner from the status of this `ManagedClusterAddOn`.
+
*Note:* The name of `ManagedClusterAddOn` must be `submariner`.

> 

Reviewer 3: Is this label added automatically after creating the `ManagedClusterAddon`?
`oc label managedclusters <managed-cluster-name> "cluster.open-cluster-management.io/submariner-agent=true>" --overwrite`

Reviewer 2: The label `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/submariner-agent` does not need any more in ACM 2.3

. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for all of the managed clusters that you want to enable Submariner.

After Submariner is deployed on the managed cluster, you can verify the Submariner deployment status by checking the status of submariner `ManagedClusterAddOn` by entering the following command: 

----
oc -n <managed-cluster-name> get managedclusteraddons submariner -oyaml
----

Replace `managed-cluster-name` with the name of the managed cluster.

In the status of the Submariner `ManagedClusterAddOn`, three conditions indicate the  deployment status of Submariner:

* `SubmarinerGatewayNodesLabeled` condition indicates whether there are labeled Submariner gateway nodes on the managed cluster.
* `SubmarinerAgentDegraded` condition indicates whether the Submariner is successfully deployed on the managed cluster.

> * `SubmarinerConnectionDegraded` condition indicates how many connections are established on the managed cluster with Submariner.

Reviewer: I'm not sure how you want to align the following statement: "After Submariner is deployed on the managed cluster, you can verify the Submariner deployment status by checking the status of submariner `ManagedClusterAddOn` by entering the following command:" 

Right now it is not aligned with the step.

This file is organized very well Chris; it's consistent, and easy to follow the flow considering the different scenarios the user has !

Author: I had that one hanging out there outside of the procedure, but apparently it was not the right place. Based on your question, it kind of does look like another step, so I incorporated it into the procedure as a final step. 

Thanks for the feedback, and the kind words. This one has changed several times along the way, so I'm glad to hear that it turned out ok. Thank you for the review!

EOF
----
+
Replace `managed-cluster-name` with the name of your managed cluster.
+
Replace `managed-cluster-namespace` with the namespace of your managed cluster.
+
Replace `aws-access-key-id` with your AWS access key ID.
+
Replace `aws-secret-access-key` with your AWS access key.

. If you created the managed cluster with {product-title-short}, or after you create the secret in the previous step, prepare the cluster by entering a command that is similar to the following example:
+
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: submarineraddon.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: SubmarinerConfig
metadata:
    name: submariner
    namespace: <managed-cluster-namespace>
spec:
    credentialsSecret:
      name: <managed-cluster-name>-aws-creds
EOF
----
+
Replace `managed-cluster-namespace` with the namespace of your managed cluster.
+
Replace `managed-cluster-name` with the name of your managed cluster. The value of `managed-cluster-name-aws-creds` is your AWS credential secret name, which you can find in the cluster namespace of your hub cluster. 
+
*Note:* The name of the `SubmarinerConfig` must be `submariner`, as shown in the example.
+

> This configuration automatically opens the Submariner required ports: Internet Key Exchange (IKE) port (500/UDP), network address translation - traversal (NATT) port (4500/UDP), virtual extensible LAN (VXLAN) port (4800/UCP), and Submariner metrics port (8080/TCP) on your AWS instance. It also creates one AWS instance as the Submariner gateway with the AWS instance type `m5n.large`.

Reviewer 2: remove IKE port

This configuration automatically opens the Submariner required ports: network address translation - traversal (NATT) port (4500/UDP), virtual extensible LAN (VXLAN) port (4800/UCP), and Submariner metrics port (8080/TCP) on your AWS instance. It also creates one AWS instance as the Submariner gateway with the AWS instance type `m5n.large`.

+

> If you want to customize your Internet Key Exchange (IKE) port or network address translation - traversal (NATT) port, enter a command that contains information that is similar to the following example:

Reviewer 2: we may need a list number here `3. If you want to customize your Internet Key Exchange (....`

Author: Added the number. This raises the question: Can these steps all be done in that order or should only one of the steps be done?

Reviewer 2: @cadawson, good point, these steps are independent each other, we may not use a number list, just use a list

> . If you want to customize your Internet Key Exchange (IKE) port or network address translation - traversal (NATT) port, enter a command that contains information that is similar to the following example:

Reviewer 2: remove IKE port

If you want to customize your network address translation - traversal (NATT) port, enter a command that contains information that is similar to the following example:

+  
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: submarineraddon.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: SubmarinerConfig
metadata:
    name: submariner
    namespace: <managed-cluster-namespace>
spec:
    credentialsSecret:
      name: <managed-cluster-name>-aws-creds

>     IPSecIKEPort: <IKEPort>

Reviewer 2: remove IKE port

    IPSecNATTPort: <NATTPort>
EOF
----
+
Replace `managed-cluster-namespace` with the namespace of your managed cluster.
+
Replace `managed-cluster-name` with the name of your managed cluster. The value of `managed-cluster-name-aws-creds` is your AWS credential secret name, which you can find in the cluster namespace of your hub cluster. 
+

> Replace `IKEPort` with the IKE port that you want to use.

Reviewer 2: remove IKE port

+
Replace `managed-cluster-namespace` with the namespace of your managed cluster.
+
Replace `gcp-os-service-account-json-file-content` with the contents of your Google Cloud Platform `osServiceAccount.json` file.

. If you created the managed cluster with {product-title-short}, or you have already created the secret in the previous step, prepare the cluster by entering a command that is similar to the following example:
+
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: submarineraddon.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: SubmarinerConfig
metadata:
    name: submariner
    namespace: <managed-cluster-namespace>
spec:
    credentialsSecret:
      name: <managed-cluster-name>-gcp-creds
EOF
----
+
Replace `managed-cluster-namespace` with the namespace of your managed cluster.
+
Replace `managed-cluster-name` with the name of your managed cluster. The value of `managed-cluster-name-gcp-creds` is your Google Cloud Platform credential secret name, which you can find in the cluster namespace of your hub cluster. 
+
*Note:* The name of the `SubmarinerConfig` must be `submariner`, as shown in the example.
+

> This configuration automatically opens the Submariner required ports: Internet Key Exchange (IKE) port (500/UDP), network address translation - traversal (NATT) port (4500/UDP), virtual extensible LAN (VXLAN) port (4800/UCP), and Submariner metrics port (8080/TCP) on your Google Cloud Platform instance. It also labels one worker node as the Submariner gateway in your Google Cloud Platform cluster.

Reviewer 2: remove IKE port

This configuration automatically opens the Submariner required ports: network address translation - traversal (NATT) port (4500/UDP), virtual extensible LAN (VXLAN) port (4800/UCP), and Submariner metrics port (8080/TCP) on your Google Cloud Platform instance. It also labels one worker node as the Submariner gateway in your Google Cloud Platform cluster.

. If you want to customize your IKE port or NATT port, enter a command that contains information that is similar to the following example:
+  
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: submarineraddon.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: SubmarinerConfig
metadata:
    name: submariner
    namespace: <managed-cluster-namespace>
spec:
    credentialsSecret:
      name: <managed-cluster-name>-gcp-creds

>     IPSecIKEPort: <IKEPort>

Reviewer 2: remove IKE port

+
Replace `NATTPort` with the NATT port that you want to use.
+
*Note:* The name of the `SubmarinerConfig` must be `submariner`, as shown in the example.

. If you want to customize the number of your gateway nodes, enter a command that contains information that is similar to the following example:
+
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: submarineraddon.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: SubmarinerConfig
metadata:
   name: submariner
   namespace: <managed-cluster-namespace>
spec:
   credentialsSecret:
     name: <managed-cluster-name>-gcp-creds
  gatewayConfig:
      gateways: <gateways>
EOF
----
+
Replace `managed-cluster-namespace` with the namespace of your managed cluster.
+
Replace `managed-cluster-name` with the name of your managed cluster. The value of `managed-cluster-name-aws-creds` is your Google Cloud Platform credential secret name, which you can find in the cluster namespace of your hub cluster. 
+
Replace `gateways` with the number of gateways that you want to use. If the value is greater than 1, the Submariner gateway automatically enables high availability.

[#preparing-vm]
=== Preparing to deploy Submariner on VMware vSphere

> Submariner uses IP security (IPSec) to establish the secure tunnels between the clusters on the gateway nodes. You can either use the default IPSec ports, or you can specify other IPSec ports that you configured. When you run this procedure without specifying an IPSec IKE port or an IPSec NATT port, the default ports are automatically used for the communication. The default ports are 500/UDP and 4500/UDP, respectively. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Submariner uses IPsec to establish secure tunnels between the clusters on the gateway nodes. You can either use the default IPsec ports, or specify custom ports. When you run this procedure without specifying an IPsec IKE port or an IPsec NATT port, the default ports are automatically used. The default ports are 500/UDP and 4500/UDP, respectively. 
```

Reviewer 2: we also need remove IKE port from here

Submariner uses virtual extensible LAN (VXLAN) to encapsulate traffic when it moves from the worker and master nodes to the gateway nodes. The VXLAN port cannot be customized, and is always port 4800/UDP.

Submariner uses 8080/TCP to send its metrics information among nodes in the cluster, this port cannot be customized.

The following ports must be opened by your VMWare vSphere administrator before you can enable Submariner:

.VMware vSphere and Submariner ports
|===
| Name | Default value | Customizable 

> | IPSec IKE

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| IPsec IKE
```

Reviewer 2: we also need remove IKE port from here

| 500/UDP
| Yes

> | IPSec NATT

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| IPsec NATT
```

Author: IBM style is to use IPSec. I see where it is also used as IPsec, but we are now guided by IBM style for consistency.

Reviewer 4: Thanks @cadawson. FYI, we use "IPsec" throughout the upstream Submariner docs. This is how the RFC refers to it   (https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6071) and this is what the rest of the Red Hat docs use as well (for e.g https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/about-ipsec-ovn.html or https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/securing_networks/configuring-a-vpn-with-ipsec_securing-networks).

Author: Hmmm. Thanks for the information @nyechiel . Still learning that things are not as set in stone at Red Hat. Given your example, and that IPsec is mainly limited to this section, we will use IPsec. If anyone says anything, we might have to change it at some point. We should be ok, though. You make a good argument.

| 4500/UDP
| Yes

| VXLAN
| 4800/UDP
| No

| Submariner metrics
| 8080/TCP
| No
|===

To prepare VMware vSphere clusters for deploying Submariner, complete the following steps:

> . Ensure that the IPSec IKE, IPSec NATT, and VXLAN ports are open.

Reviewer 2: Ensure that the IPSec IKE, IPSec NATT, VXLAN and metrics ports are open.

> . Ensure that the IPSec IKE, IPSec NATT, VXLAN, and metrics ports are open.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Ensure that the IPsec IKE, IPsec NATT, VXLAN, and metrics ports are open.
```

Reviewer 2: we also need remove IKE port from here

Author: IBM style

. Enter a command that contains information that is similar to the following example:
+
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: submarineraddon.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: SubmarinerConfig
metadata:
    name: submariner
    namespace: <managed-cluster-namespace>
spec:{}
EOF
----
+
Replace `managed-cluster-namespace` with the namespace of your managed cluster.
+
*Note:* The name of the `SubmarinerConfig` must be `submariner`, as shown in the example.

> 

Reviewer 2: We may need an explanation

```
This configuration will use default Internet Key Exchange (IKE) port (500/UDP) and default network address translation - traversal (NATT) port (4500/UDP) for your Submariner and one worker node will be labled as the Submariner gateway in your vSphere cluster.
```

> This configuration uses default Internet Key Exchange (IKE) port (500/UDP) and default network address translation - traversal (NATT) port (4500/UDP) for your Submariner and one worker node is labled as the Submariner gateway on your vSphere cluster.

Reviewer 2: we also need remove IKE port from here

This configuration uses default network address translation - traversal (NATT) port (4500/UDP) for your Submariner and one worker node is labled as the Submariner gateway on your vSphere cluster.

> . Submariner uses IP security (IPSec) to establish the secure tunnels between the clusters on the gateway nodes. You can either use the default IPSec ports, or you can specify other IPSec ports that you configured. When you run this procedure without specifying an IPSec IKE port or an IPSec NATT port, the default ports are automatically used for the communication. The default ports are 500/UDP and 4500/UDP, respectively. If you want to customize your IKE port or NATT port, complete the following steps:

Reviewer 2: This is to use the customized IPsec ports, we may change this to

3. If you want to use your customized IPSec ports, enter a command that contains information that is similar to the following example:

```
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: submarineraddon.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: SubmarinerConfig
metadata:
    name: submariner
    namespace: <managed-cluster-namespace>
spec:
    IPSecIKEPort: <IKEPort>
    IPSecNATTPort: <NATTPort>
EOF
```

Replace managed-cluster-namespace with the namespace of your managed cluster.

Replace IKEPort with the IKE port that you want to use.

Replace NATTPort with the NATT port that you want to use.

> Note: The name of the SubmarinerConfig must be submariner, as shown in the example.

+

> Submariner uses IP security (IPSec) to establish the secure tunnels between the clusters on the gateway nodes. You can either use the default IPSec ports, or you can specify other IPSec ports that you configured. When you run this procedure without specifying an IPSec IKE port or an IPSec NATT port, the default ports are automatically used for the communication. The default ports are 500/UDP and 4500/UDP, respectively. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Submariner uses IPsec to establish secure tunnels between the clusters on the gateway nodes. You can either use the default IPsec ports, or you can specify custom ports. When you run this procedure without specifying an IPsec IKE port or an IPsec NATT port, the default ports are automatically used. The default ports are 500/UDP and 4500/UDP, respectively. 
```

Reviewer 2: we also need remove IKE port from here

. If you want to customize your IKE port or NATT port, enter a command that contains information that is similar to the following example:
+  
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: submarineraddon.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: SubmarinerConfig
metadata:
    name: submariner
    namespace: <managed-cluster-namespace>
spec:

>     IPSecIKEPort: <IKEPort>

Reviewer 2: remove IKE port

    IPSecNATTPort: <NATTPort>
EOF
----
+
Replace `managed-cluster-namespace` with the namespace of your managed cluster.
+

> Replace `IKEPort` with the IKE port that you want to use.

Reviewer 2: remove IKE port

= Deploy Submariner with the ManagedClusterAddOn API

To deploy Submariner by using the `ManagedClusterAddOn` API, complete the following steps:

. Create a `ManagedClusterSet` on the hub cluster by using the instructions provided in link:../clusters/custom_resource.adoc#managedclustersets[ManagedClusterSets]. Your entry for the `ManagedClusterSet` should resemble the following content:
+    
----
apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: ManagedClusterSet
metadata:
  name: <managed-cluster-set-name>
----
+
Replace `managed-cluster-set-name` with a name for the `ManagedClusterSet` that you are creating.
+
*Note:* The maximum length of the name of the Kubernetes namespace is 63 characters, so the maximum length of the `<managed-cluster-set-name>` is 56 characters. If the length of `<managed-cluster-set-name>` exceeds 56, the `<managed-cluster-set-name>` is truncated from the head.
+
After the `ManagedClusterSet` is created, the `submariner-addon` creates a namespace called `<managed-cluster-set-name>-broker` and deploys the Submariner broker to it.

. Add one managed cluster to the `ManagedClusterSet` by entering the following command:

> +

Reviewer 3: Is the `ManagedClusterSetBinding` necessary here?

```
apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: ManagedClusterSetBinding
metadata:
  name: submariner
  namespace: submariner-operator
spec:
  clusterSet: submariner
 ```

Reviewer 2: we don't need `ManagedClusterSetBinding` here
